# Environmental policy

Akvaplan-niva is a research and consulting organization dedicated to protecting
the integrity of the environment and working to establish methods and strategies
for sustainable use of resources.

We work both externally with our customers and collaborators, and internally
through our procedures and strategies, to continually improve environmental
considerations in how we work and what we produce.

Akvaplan-niva's services and products shall as far as possible contribute to
positive environmental effect and sustainable social development for industry
and society.

Akvaplan-niva shall work systematically and continuously to reduce its own
environmental footprint and shall influence collaboration partners, customers,
and suppliers to do the same.

All significant environmental aspects associated with our strategic goals are
taken into consideration and incorporated into annual action plans. We set
targets to manage the company's environmental impact in accordance with national
and international recommendations and directives for improving sustainability
and environmental integrity in operations. Akvaplan-niva shall always operate
within the framework of the environmental legislation in force.

All employees are obliged to follow this environmental policy, and to contribute
positively to the achievement of the stated environmental goals. We are
committed to reducing our impact on the environment, and have, therefore, set
the following environmental targets:

## Waste

We will reduce waste production by encouraging a paperless workplace, and sort
waste for appropriate post-consumer processing and recycling in our offices,
laboratories, warehouses, and research station. There are specific guidelines
and procedures in place for the treatment of special waste from our operations.

## Transport and travel

We will receive deliveries in such a way that it produces the lowest possible
emissions and make our own transport assignments as emission friendly as
possible. We will assess the necessity of trips, and when they have to be
carried out, we will choose among the most emission-friendly options. We
encourage our employees to use public transport, cycle or walk to work. When
purchasing new cars, fuel consumption will be scrutinized and we shall consider
environmentally friendly alternatives (vehicle sharing, electric vehicles). This
also applies to tire selection in effort to reduce asphalt degradation and
rubber-particle generation.

## Purchasing

As far as possible, we will carry out purchases in such a way that it produces
the least possible waste, considers the life cycle of products as part of the
purchase, and encourages reuse/recycling where applicable.

## Project management

We will manage projects, so they have the least possible impact on the
environment. This applies, for example, to the use of digital meeting places
instead of physical travel, planning transport and field work to reduce
emissions, and minimizing the purchase, shipping, and consumption of materials.

## Energy consumption

To the extent possible, we shall reduce the energy and water consumption of our
infrastructure and activities.

## Communication

Our communication will mainly take place digitally, and we will use video
conferencing for meeting activities where possible and appropriate.

Updated: 16 November 2023
